[dramatic music]
LAURA: Okay! I'm going to stand here! Hi!
AUDIENCE: Hi!
LAURA: Can you still see me? Is this worse for you
guys, or is this okay? Okay.
Hi, I'm Laura. What's going on? Ah!
(gasping and laughter)
LAURA: All the light! So, what do you guys want to
do?
(laughter)
LAURA: Just hang out? Should I answer some
questions or something? Do you have questions for
me? All right, cool! If you have a question, raise
your hand. You're first! If you want to, you can
go to that fabulous microphone so everybody can
hear you, but I'm thinking everybody can hear you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I love you in Shin Chan. It's my
favorite.
LAURA: (as Shin) Thanks.
(laughter)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: There are over 900 episodes in
Japan. Is there any chance you all will be dubbing more?
LAURA: I don't think so, because I live in
California now. If they did, it would be very
hard. Plus we had this fabulous group of writers
coming together for the first season that was the
writers on Space Ghost Coast to Coast. I know,
right? They came in and did that. In the second
season we just had our awesome writers at
Funimation, but the actual creator of Shin Chan
passed away. I'm going to stand. That's better.
The actual creator of Shin Chan passed away. When
he was alive, he was cool with us going off on the
show. They said we could take the animation-- as
long as we kept the characters consistent, we
could interpret the animation however we wanted
and make the show into what it was. Then, once he
passed away, they got a lot more strict with what
they were willing to let us do, so the show
plateaued on that.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Well, I'll always love what we
had.
LAURA: (as Shin) Aw. We had a beautiful time
together! I'll love you forever.
(laughter)
LAURA: Next question! Yes, you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello!
LAURA: Hi!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi there. In Saints Row, the
character you played actually had six or seven
different potential voices. Did you do anything to
make yours stand out, or did they tell you "this
"one's going to be a little different somehow" or
different script writing?
LAURA: No, well actually-- Okay, so that game was
awesome, because he would write to our
personalities. So once we did the first couple
sessions, Steve, who was our voice director and
our writer on the show-- he's just amazing. I had
the tendency-- Are there any small kids in here?
Because we're talking about Saints Row!
(laughter)
LAURA: I have specific cuss words that, for some
reason while I'm recording, come out, and I don't
understand why! So instead of just saying, "Ah,
shit!" it'll be like,
"Ah, fuck me running!" for some reason!
(laughter)
LAURA: That's what I say when I screw up a line!
He wrote that into my character, which is awesome,
and then things like Mimosa Monday that we ended
up putting in Saints Row when we were the
President, that was something we actually did when
we were recording. We would have Mimosa Mondays.
We declared that in the game too, which was
awesome. Then Troy Baker played the male default
one voice, if you will, and he did most of the
base recording in Saints Row the Third. When we
would go into cinematics, we would match his
timing, but we'd have to put our own personalities
on timing that he already did. Troy is a
phenomenal actor, and sometimes I think that he
intentionally will screw with a line just to screw
with everybody else. So if the line was, "WIll you
"get over here?" He would be like, "Will you just,
ugh, will you, ugh, will you get over here?"
(shouting) And then we'd have to match that stupid
timing! So every person then– Well, I had it easy
because I had an American accent, but other people
had a Russian accent, or Hispanic, and they had to
match that. It was very fun. But on the Fourth
when I was the President, I laid down the base
track, so I would intentionally screw up the
timing so that Troy would have a hard time.
(laughter)
(applause)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you very much.
LAURA: Thank you. Yes, second row.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I know I'm not the only one here
who knows you mainly from Critical Role.
LAURA: Yeah! Critical Role!
(cheering)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Final battle next week!
LAURA: I'm sweating. I literally started
sweating.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I asked the same question at
Travis' panel yesterday, so the same question for
you: when the new campaign comes along, can you
give us any hints on what
type of character you're going to play?
LAURA: What did he do?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: He said he was going to be--
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Race and basic class.
LAURA: He did?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: He hinted that he's probably
going to play a cleric, paladin,
or some form of caster.
LAURA: Okay. I'm going to be honest with you guys,
because we're an intimate group in
here with the camera running. I see you.
(laughter)
LAURA: So I want to be a cleric! Okay? I was like,
"I'm going to be a cleric!" I planned this whole
character! I'm going to be a cleric. Then Travis
is like, "Hey, I'm thinking about being a cleric,"
and I was like "Travis, I already talked to you! I
was going to be a cleric," and he's like "Yeah, I
know, sweetie. I think I want to be a cleric." And
I was like, "Okay. You be cleric, because that's
cool. I'll play another character." So then I make
another character, and as soon as I come up with
that one, he's like, "That looks like a fun
class."
(laughter)
LAURA: It took freaking all night to make that!
I'm like, "Travis Willingham, you stop it!" so I
am literally waiting on him to make his damn
decision before I can set my character, because if
he's not going to be a cleric then I'll be a
cleric. But if he is a cleric, then I have another
one that I can't tell you.
(laughter)
LAURA: I do want to have spells. I will say that
much.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Awesome, very cool.
LAURA: Yes, with the camera!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: This is the genderbent Lust that
talked to you yesterday--
LAURA: Yes, I remember!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: If there's any voice actors that
you have never gotten to work with that
you'd love to work with, who would those be?
LAURA: Who I never got to work with? I've worked
with a lot of people! I would have said Mark
Hamill, but I worked with him now.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: What did you work with him on?
LAURA: I worked with him on the Regular Show,
which was on Crunchyroll.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: What was that like, working with
him?
LAURA: Amazing! The most amazing thing ever. It
was right before the new Star Wars was
announced, so I'm sure he was so excited and
didn't say anything. Nobody knew. Then another
time I ran into him at another studio but I didn't
say hi because I was too shy. He was walking down
Hollywood, I was walking in the other direction,
and we had like a-- It was so amazing!
Yeah, I don't know!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Did you ever get to work with
Ashly Burch or Tara Strong on anything?
LAURA: Yeah, I've worked with both them a bunch.
Like, both of them are amazing. Amazing people and
amazing actors. Ashly's been on Critical Role!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Oh yeah.
LAURA: So that's even better.
(laughter)
LAURA: Then she won an Emmy. I don't know if you
see the correlation there, but there definitely
is. Thank you!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.
LAURA: Hi, you in front. Sure, yeah, why not?
Because it's fun, right?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: First of all, I just want to say
thank you. I've been waiting forever to
meet you and Travis, so this is awesome. Also,
happy late anniversary since you posted on twitter--
LAURA: Thank you! Six years, y'all!
(applause)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Also, this is kind of more of an
anime type of related question.
LAURA: Okay.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: If you had to be in any shounen
universe that you voice a character in,
you don't have to be your character, just in that
universe, what one would you like to be in?
LAURA: Fruits Basket.
(cheering)
LAURA: Only because the men can turn into animals!
Was that even a choice? Because it's basically our
world, just like one little pocket of cool.
(laughter)
LAURA: I would want to know them. And hug them.
LAURA: You next. Yes.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Pardon me. Do you ever miss
working on the BlazBlue series? I know that the
last game didn't have an English dub. What was it
like when you found that out, and what was your
favorite moment dubbing from those games?
LAURA: Oh, gosh. My favorite moment-- Jeez, it was
so much fun to get to play such a weird character
that fought with myself, basically. That's always
fun, when you get to go back and forth with your
own dialogue, because you control the conversation
completely. Yeah, that was a lot of fun. I didn't
realize that there was a project that we didn't
get to dub, but now I'm sad. Womp womp.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: AkSys is being lame.
LAURA: That's right. Thank you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Sorry, I'm short. First of all, I
want you to know I started crying when you and
Travis announced you were coming to Atlanta.
LAURA: Don't cry!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I was so excited! Two questions.
I haven't played season two yet of
Telltale: Batman. Poison Ivy?
LAURA: What, am I going to give you spoilers or
something?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Okay, then, one you can answer,
since I know you love the quarter-elves so much,
do you have names picked out for the little de
Rolo babies?
LAURA: I can't do that yet! I can't go there.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Do they have lots of kids or
none? Because Percy had a big family.
LAURA: I think he'd want-- I don't know! I'd
really like two kids.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Two or seven?
LAURA: Two or seven. Either one. Man, I can't come
up with seven freaking names.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: You'd be surprised! Some of us
have 40 D&D characters.
LAURA: Your name is Titty Sprinkles. Your name is
Chalupa. Your name is-- Thank you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: You guys were so cute at the
beginning of Talks Machina, by the way.
LAURA: What?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: When you guys came in for Talks
Machina, you guys were so cute with the flowers!
LAURA: Wasn't that adorable? It's so fun coming up
with those little skits every single time before
the show. I love it.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.
LAURA: Thank you! You. Yes.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Laura.
LAURA: Hi!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I've got a two-part question,
nothing extensive. The first one is: if you have
to do voice work that's outside of California, do
they pay for airfare? It's just one of those
really weird questions I've always wondered. The
second thing is, has there been a notable project
that you've worked on where they called you, and
you didn't have to audition for it?
LAURA: Yeah, both. I'll answer the first one. Yes,
they fly you for the most part. When I first moved
out to California and I still had work at
Funimation in that first little bit, they didn't,
but it was understandable because I had shows that
I had been working on and all of a sudden I was
gone, so it was my responsibility to come back and
finish that recording. Now if there's a project
that records in another city, then yeah, they'll
pay for travel. The second one, it's yes! I'm very
grateful that there have been a couple projects
that they've come to me directly and asked if I
would work on it. I'm trying to think if there's
any that are out that I can talk about... No? But
there's a really cool one coming up that I would
love to tell you about. But I can't. Yes. You in
the front, and then you in the second. I thought
those were roller skates for a second.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi.
LAURA: Hi!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I guess your role as Sana in
Child's Toy--
LAURA: Yeah! Kodocha, whoo!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I was listening to that a lot and
wondering, when it gets so fast, how do you--
LAURA: How do you breathe? You don't. You
basically don't breathe. No, I had so much sugar
in my body when we were recording that show. So
much Red Bull. I would go in and it was, for the
most part, Colleen, who was my roommate at the
time, was directing it. We would have these really
long recording sessions where we would crack up
and make all these jokes and everything. But the
hardest part was that because we were roommates,
she would hold me to a higher standard, and she
would make me do those long paragraphs of
(fast-forward buzzing) and if I messed up towards
the end, normally you can pick up and they'll
splice it together. But Colleen's like, "You can
do it. Do it again." So I would have to do the
whole paragraph all over again. Yeah, it was
craziness. Sometimes they would write it to where
they would say the first couple sentences of a
rant and then literally put, "Sana keeps ranting,"
in parentheses. I was like, "Yeah, but I have to
say stuff!" I'd have to make up random things to
start saying in the background so sometimes I was
completely ad libbing. "Popcorn head," I think was
one of the ad libs. You can do it. Nobody breathe.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I'm now shorter.
LAURA: I like your hat!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you! I like it, too. This
isn't really a question, because I don't seem to
have questions, I just have statements most of the
time.
LAURA: I'm prepared.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: When it comes to talking to you
for some reason, I wanted to say that I enjoyed
you yelling at me in Diablo 3 whenever I'm saying
I can't do that anymore. I can't do that yet. I
have no-- Now I've forgotten what kind of
resource.
LAURA: I have no more mana?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah, it's either discipline or
vengeance.
LAURA: Oh, that's right.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I played a demon hunter, so I'm
like, Laura and I have battled together.
So we're besties now.
LAURA: I'm not the demon hunter in the first part
of Diablo 3.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: [inaudible]
LAURA: Oh, really?
LAURA: You're doing it right, then. Yes. You look
beautiful.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you! This is kind of
spoilerish for Critical Role.
LAURA: Oh no!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Number one, how does it make you
feel to know that all the living de Rolos have
killed a certain member of a certain evil family.
LAURA: (evil laughter) It feels so good!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Then, did you ever think that Vex
would get to the point in her character
development and growth that she is now, where all
the things that upset her or she obsessed over at
the very beginning are just minor little
details--
LAURA: Isn't it so crazy?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: It's so cool!
LAURA: No, I never thought it would go there! We
had no concept of where the show would go or where
our characters would go or where the story would
go. I know Matt, I'm sure, had this grand vision
in his head, but none of us realized it could ever
be what it is. When I created Vex, it was just
this little-- this sounds like a fun thing to do.
Then the more we played, the more little quirks
that they have keep coming out and then the
backstory that you made up makes sense with these
random quirks. To be able to grow with that
character has been so freaking insane. Anytime I
think about it, I'm blown away. It's so freaking
awesome, and it's so much fun to get to have that
kind of experience with your best friends, and
then to get to share that experience with this
amazing community of people that share that
experience with us. It's so phenomenal and I could
never have grasped that it would go there. It's so
great. Yes. You are raising your hand and looking around.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: First off, actually, you all can
hear me, right?
LAURA: Do it!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I have a real loud voice. God
blessed me with good lungs. First off, I'd like to
say that you're one of my favorite voice actors. I
have a male and female one, the male one is Jim Cummings.
LAURA: That's a very good choice. I don't deserve
to stand next to him, but thank you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Well, you voiced Jaina
Proudmoore.
LAURA: Yeah!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Big World of Warcraft player. I
have a generic question for you. Also, just to
make everyone glare daggers at me, I've never
heard of Critical Role before.
LAURA: It's okay, because now you can explore it
and experience it.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Most generic question ever:
what's your favorite character of the video games
that you've voiced?
LAURA: Whoa, that's really hard.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I have another one, if you want.
LAURA: Okay, give me that one, too. Hit me. Don't
really hit me.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: What's it like working with
Blizzard with the voice acting?
LAURA: Blizzard is amazing. Working with them is
always freaking so much fun, because they are so
invested in the story. Whenever you go in for the
sessions, they'll spend the first 15, 20 minutes
of the session letting you know-- because we've
been with these characters for so long-- where in
the story it is, the mindspace that Jaina's in in
that place, where she's just come from. We'll get
to have this awesome discussion about the exact
mindset of who she's thinking about as she's
delivering these lines.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Kalecgos?
LAURA: They're so giving in that respect.
They're always coming up with new, fun things,
like Jaina in World of Warcraft, and I also get to
be Jaina in Heroes of the Storm and Jaina in
Hearthstone and Jaina in all these other projects
that they always pull little aspects of her
personality for the different franchises. I think
that's a really fun thing because then it doesn't
feel so like doing the same character for so long.
I forget even what your first question was.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: It was what was your favorite
voice for a video game.
LAURA: For anything. Yeah, I can't answer that,
because now I just want to say Jaina, but I feel
like that's a little biased at this particular
moment.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Fair enough. All right, that's
all I need to know, so.
LAURA: Jaina! It's Jaina! There you go. Yes.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi!
LAURA: Oh, hello!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I've found that you were voicing
a show called Ever After High at one point, which
I love. I would watch it when I was sick. I know
it might be for children, but I used to be a
nanny. I love it. As Travis has played in Sophia
the First and you played in Ever After High and
things for a younger audience, are there roles
that you really love playing or roles that you
would never play again? Do you worry about being
typecast? Do you like playing diverse roles? How
do you decide what roles to take on?
LAURA: I audition, usually, and if they cast me,
then I'm like, "Yes." There are some projects that
now I can say I'm not going to audition for that.
It's usually things that are a little more
questionable material, things that I don't agree
with, maybe. Whereas in the past I might not have
had the opportunity to say no to something. I'm
grateful that I can do that now, because so much
of being an actor is just skating by and trying to
get your next job. I enjoy playing villains, but
they usually die or get defeated and then they're
not in the story anymore. Being a villain is
always fun because you get to be a punk. I also
really like when my character has a romantic
interest, and even if they don't, I'll ship them
with one of the other characters in the show and
hope beyond hope that it happens. When I got cast
as Black Widow and Hawkeye was in the show, too, I
was like, "Come on, you guys. Make it happen."
We'll be recording something and it won't even be
that flirty, but then I'll see the animation and
they're fighting or something, I'm like, "Yeah!"
It looks flirty and it reminds me of the X-Men
series from when I was a kid and I was like,
"Yeah, Rogue and Gambit!" You know what I mean? I
guess that says what my preference is. I want my
character to have romantic interest. Yes, you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Two quick questions. One, does
Travis know they put your panel in a room that's
five times the size of his?
LAURA: I don't think they should have, because
there was a bunch of other panels
going on during this panel!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: You've got to tell him this is
all the way full to the back with people.
LAURA: Oh, man. I will. I already texted him
because when I got here the room was empty and I
didn't know that there was a line or anything. So
I texted Travis, and I was like, "My room doesn't
"have anybody in it," and he wrote back, "Ha ha
ha."
(laughter)
LAURA: Oh, man.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: And the other question is, what's
the most difficult voice for you to actually do?
What type of voice?
LAURA: The most difficult type of voice is
little-boy voices. Specifically like Trunks or--
the worst one was Omochao, if you guys know who
that is--
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah, he's from Sonic.
LAURA: He's in the Sonic games.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Do it!
LAURA: (as Omochao) So his voice is right here, I
think. I can't remember exactly. (normal voice) So
it's raspy, but it's high, which is just the
stupidest thing, and it was one of those
situations, if you guys saw the video game panel
yesterday, Ali mentioned auditioning with a
character voice that you can't necessarily
maintain. And that was totally what happened. I
auditioned for that role, and for the 30 seconds
of the audition it was totally fine, and then I
got cast and I was 15 minutes into the session,
and I'm like, "I'm going to die. I can't do this.
"I can't--" And Jack Fletcher was my voice
director, and he is this amazing director that not
only does voice acting, but he does theatrical
work, so he's very much into your body posture and
everything, so he totally gave me free voice
lessons, basically, when I was doing that job,
where he would teach me how to stand and how to
hold my head so that I could actually freaking
sustain. And it totally worked, and he was a
genius. But it is very difficult, and it's always
super painful. Trunks is hard because it's that
kind of a voice on top of battle reactions. (as
Trunks) So, like, Trunks is right here, which
isn't that bad because I've gotten used to doing
it, but over four hours of doing it, and then
he's, like, powering up-- (normal voice) Man. It's
fine for the first two hours, but then as soon as
I take a break, like for 15 minutes and then go
back in the booth, it's just death. It's like your
voice has gotten warmed up and then you let it
cool down and you get back in the booth and it's
like (sobbing). So. Yes. I'm going to drink some
water, because I did those two voices.
(laughter)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: You're forgiven.
LAURA: Thanks.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: So I asked this at Travis's panel
yesterday, but. Is there any pet peeves that he
does that you get annoyed with?
LAURA: What did he say?! Did he just--
AUDIENCE MEMBER: He said dice.
LAURA: Oh, well, yeah, you know. Anything he does
that I'm annoyed with? Like, in life?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Nothing too bad, but you know how
some couples bicker, right, but not in serious fights.
LAURA: Right. Yeah, I'm sure, I'm just trying to
think. I have a noise thing. I feel like this
would annoy him more than it annoys me, but I have
a noise thing, so if we're eating, I can't stand
the sound of people eating. Ugh, it just drives me
crazy. So anytime we eat, if there's silence, I'm
like, "Turn the TV on!"
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, I'm like that too.
LAURA: So that is one of the things. But that's
not really a pet peeve of mine that he has,
because everybody eats.
(laughter)
LAURA: I don't know. He'll sit in the couch.
Instead of sitting on one of the seat cushions, he
sits in the middle of the two seat cushions.
(laughter)
LAURA: That's a thing. And then I'm like, "Now
both of the seat cushions are squished, and I
"can't fix it because they're squished towards the
middle." So that's all. We have a pretty happy
life. We don't fight that much. Yes.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you for coming, first of
all. I'm currently on episode 64 of Critical Role,
so I only have about 200 hours.
LAURA: Yeah, not much. So close.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I did want to ask, because I know
in total it's some obscene number of hours. What
is it like being able to tell a continuing story
over that much time?
LAURA: It's so crazy. It's so crazy that we've
actually been so consistent with it, you know,
when Matt's-- Oh, you don't know! Matt's back hurt
a couple weeks ago, and he actually, it was the
first time in all of the episodes where he texted
all of us, he's like, "Y'all, I don't think I can
"do this." And we actually had to cancel the show
that day. And it was the first time it had
happened in, what, how many years are we in? Like
two and a half years now? So that's so crazy.
Yeah, I am happy that we've been able to do it,
and just in disbelief about it. Thank you.
There's so much coming up, you just wait. So much
goodness. Yes.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello.
LAURA: Hi. You're so cute!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Oh, thank you. I have-- this was
similar to someone else's question, but I know
that you had more of an actor/theatrical
background, and so when you went into voiceover,
did you know that you would end up more in the
video game sort of cartoon area, or did you go
into voiceover being okay with doing audio books
or that sort of thing?
LAURA: I didn't really have an idea of where voice
acting would take me. In fact, when I started
voice acting, I was still in Dallas, and my focus
was still film and TV. It wasn't until I moved out
to California and I realized how much voice acting
variation there is. Because in Texas, there was
Funimation and there was AVD in Houston. Is that
still around? No? But there was AVD in Houston.
It's like, if I wanted to drive that far, I could
work there. But there wasn't a lot of video games
there. Gearbox wasn't really a thing when I was
there. So anime was all I could do, and anime is
awesome, but it was like, go to Funimation every
day, and it's an office building, and you get to
feel like it's an office job, because it's the
same people and you walk in and it's like-- So it
felt very much like not the same as doing TV or
something, where you go in and it's this whole big
crew and everything's crazy. So that's totally
what I thought I wanted to do, because I'm like,
"This is acting," because I was stupid. And yeah,
when I went out to California, it was like, "Oh,
"there's these cartoons and these cartoons and this
anime and this anime and that studio does these
"video games and this studio," and it's like all
over town, and every day, you go to a different
place. And it made me realize what voice acting
could be outside of one studio. Because working at
one studio, they get to know these particular
voices that you do, and that's what you keep
getting cast as. And then out there, it was like,
"Oh, there's still all these people that don't
"have any idea what I sound like and I can do
whatever!" I totally didn't answer your question.
I didn't ever realize what you could do in voice
acting, so I guess I just wandered into it without
expectation. That's-- there you go. I suck, you
guys. I'm the worst answerer ever. Sorry.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I had one other question, if you
knew a lot about the track of voice directors. I
know you mentioned a voice director you worked
with, and if they had more of a background in
theater directing or they had done voices
themselves and now directed others?
LAURA: Yes, both. A lot of them come to it from
working in theater, and a lot of them come to it
from, yeah, they were voice actors and now they're
directing other actors, because they know how to
communicate that way. I've been asked to voice
direct before, I voice directed at Funimation and
since I've been out to California, I've had a
couple opportunities where they asked me to voice
direct. So that happens. And then there's other
people that they came up through the days of Hanna
Barbera and got trained as voice directors, and
they are amazing at what they do, because that's
where their experience is and that's where their
education is, and there's a whole slew of
directors that do it that way.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.
LAURA: Thank you. Yes, in the back. You're Percy!
You look great!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you. I guess I don't really
need the microphone.
LAURA: You don't, but it's fine, right?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: So I'm a big fan of Serana in
Skyrim.
LAURA: Thanks. Best companion ever.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Seriously, I'm not even
exaggerating, she was the only companion I ever
had through my, like, 20 playthroughs of that
game. And my question is, what was it like working
at Bethesda, and also how did you enjoy playing a
sassy vampire who would not, under any
circumstances, stop complaining about the sun,
even if it was night?
LAURA: No, really, she complained about the sun
when it was nighttime?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Every time I exited out a door.
LAURA: Really?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: "Ugh, it's just so bright
outside." It's 12 o'clock at night!
(laughter)
LAURA: I don't remember that part. She was my
companion, too. I never had any other companions
except for myself.
(laughter)
LAURA: Everybody else annoyed me, because I was
always playing a really stealthy character and
then they would just run into battle and give away
our location! It was the stupidest thing! It was
awesome playing her. It is awesome working for
Bethesda.
(laughter)
LAURA: No, I didn't– That was one of the projects
I don't think I knew what I was working on the
first couple sessions I recorded, and then finally
after, "Okay, but what is it?" They finally told
me. No, it was awesome. I'm such a fan of that
franchise. Anytime I get to do a voice on a
project that I'm a huge fan of I like it a little
bit more.
(laughter)
LAURA: Isn't that crap? I hope I don't do a better
job on those projects because I want to play them,
and so I'm like, "I've got to do a good job or
else I'm going to be annoyed with myself." It's
possible. It was weird when I was playing it
because I would be crouching down, but then I
would hear myself getting hurt.
(laughter)
LAURA: It was very confusing.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.
LAURA: Thank you. Yes.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: It scares me.
LAURA: Being on mic?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah, I'm behind the scenes for
community theater–
LAURA: Oh, awesome!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: On Critical Role– I just want to
say thank you for being so gracious and kind to
opening your life and your world to us. It brings
so much joy and makes me feel grateful for
watching you guys battle giant titans and
creatures that are way beyond anything a regular
person could do. They can deal with that and
Scanlan's pooping in the corner.
(laughter)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you for being so gracious
in that. Then my actual question is: Travis is
really into werewolves. Really into werewolves
and he expressed yesterday that if there's a
werewolf campaign he wants that. If there's a
supernatural campaign for you, what creature, or
urban myth type thing would you want to run, or be
in?
LAURA: I mean, probably a modern-day witch
situation, because that's all off a book series
that I love so much. (laughs) The Hollow series.
Have you guys read it? Oh my God, it's so good! It
takes place in modern day, and it's about this
witch! Anyway.
(laughter)
LAURA: Yeah, so probably that. I was thinking– I
shouldn't tell you guys. No, it should be a
surprise, but it's cool, so get ready for it
later.
(laughter)
LAURA: As for your comment, I just want to say
thank you guys for joining us on all of that,
because I know that we're on the screen and
everything, and we're not actually sitting with
you guys playing, but it feels like we have a
whole bunch of friends playing with us that aren't
there. After every game, I'll go on Twitter to see
what people are saying because I want to write
back to people about the game, because it just
feels like everybody is there with us, you know?
So thank you for that. Yes.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I have two questions. One is
quick and one is more, you know. I came late so I
don't know if someone maybe asked this already.
What's probably the most rewarding thing about
being a voice actor?
LAURA: The most rewarding thing? Oh gosh, just
getting to be a part of the industry that I love.
I grew up with video games and I would sit behind
my dad while he played Doom and Half Life and I
always played the Sierra games growing up, all the
Quest for Glory games and Kingdom's Quest, and
never realized it was something that I could be a
part of. Knowing what an impact it had on my life,
and then thinking that I could be a part of that
for somebody else. That feels really awesome.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Then my second question: What are
some of the differences when it comes to working
when it comes to video games versus anime, or is
there anything that voice directors tell you that
you need to do differently than the other?
LAURA: No, it just depends on what the clients
want. I feel like the biggest differences-- with
anime and video games, it's actually pretty
similar, because you're in a room by yourself for
the most part. With animation, series that record
out here will record in a room with a whole bunch
of other people, so the cast actually records
together. That's something we can't do in anime or
video games, usually, because of the nature of the
dialogue and the nature of matching picture. I
feel like it's all meshing together at this point.
Dragon Ball Z is a very specific style of
recording for sure, but Soul Eater is so cinematic
that recording, it's all very real and genuine--
and so is video game recording now. Everything is
moving toward this cinematic, real version of
everything and I think that's so awesome. I guess
the thing I do that is different than anything
else is motion capture, which is where a lot of
video games are going now. A lot of the time,
instead of just recording in a booth, I'll
actually be on a stage in a really attractive
spandex outfit going through the scenes real-time.
So that is turning into more of a theater thing.
It feels like this mix between film and theater
because it's just a little elevated beyond what
you can do for camera. So that's really fun.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I play more video games than I
watch anime. My friends are all like, "Oh, you
"should watch more anime." But I just play more
video games--
LAURA: You should watch more anime!
(laughter)
LAURA: And everybody else should play more video
games.
(laughter)
LAURA: And everybody should watch Critical Role!
Yes, you.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: So we all know how much Matt
loves Vax and Vex and how their names are so
similar. With your guys' new characters coming up,
have you gotten together and talked about pranking
Matt and making your names all very similar?
LAURA: Oh god, he would just murder us. I honestly
think that he would be like, "No." He would say no.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Could you imagine him on screen,
though, have it completely different from what
they're going to be--
LAURA: (laughs) He would kill us. That would just
be the worst. Honestly, when we were creating Vex
and Vax, we did not realize what a problem it
would be. It was Vax'ildan and Vex'ahlia... and
then as we kept playing, it was Vex and Vax.
Sometimes I get it wrong. It's terrible.
(laughter)
LAURA: Yes?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I just wanted to say-- it's not
really so much of a question, it's just a thank
you. Because this is my-- Percy's my son, and it's
watching Critical Role. Actually, it started with
watching Fullmetal Alchemist, which I didn't even
know you guys voiced at the time! But it brought
us together. And gives us a lot of mother-and-son
time, and now we come to conventions like this--
LAURA: Oh, that's awesome!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Anyway, thank you and the rest of
the cast of Critical Role. It's so much fun. It's
kind of weird, because I caught up but I was
watching the back episodes--
AUDIENCE MEMBER 2: I started her at episode 90.
LAURA: Oh really? How was that, starting at
episode 90? Is it weird?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: It was weird, but it was fine
because he brought me up to speed. But then I
started watching from episode one on my own. So
now on that end I'm up to episode 59.
LAURA: Oh my gosh, I'm so happy! Thank you so much
for sharing that. Thank you for being a part of it!
(applause)
LAURA: Seriously, it would be nothing if we didn't
have the community of people joining us for it. It
really would still be us probably in mine and
Travis' house.
(laughter)
LAURA: We would have gotten ten episodes in like,
"Nobody's watching. Okay, well, we'll just go back
"home, thanks!" Yes, are you Beetlejuice?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.
LAURA: Yes!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I'm very new to playing D&D and I
was wondering what your first session ever was like?
LAURA: Our first ever session, we came in with our
names, our class, and our race, and that's it. I
knew I wanted a pet, so I had a bear. Outside of
that, there was a little bit of texting back and
forth about what we were going to be. Travis
didn't even have his dang name picked out when we
played our first game. We sat down and he was like
"Uh. Uh." Because Matt was like, "Go around and
"introduce yourself."
(laughter)
LAURA: He went, "I'm, uh, Grog." We're like,
"That's alcohol. Okay, that's fine." It was so
crazy. I think because I had played so many RPGs
on video games and stuff that I had this idea of
what this world is going to be. So as soon as it
started we were all looking at each other like,
"Whoa, what are you doing? What's going on?" Then
as soon as we started we had accents and stuff.
Ashley, when she first started playing with us,
she looked around because everybody was talking
and she was like, "Oh no! Are we all doing
accents?" She's like, "I suck at a British accent,
"is that okay?" We were like, "Just do you, Pike,
just do you!" It was funny and crazy and zany and
I think the very first game we had, we fought a
giant baby. It was a really gross fetus monster
baby. I don't know. Matt brought it out as this
giant head thing. It's in the opening credits,
when we were telling our backstory of what we were
doing, and Wendy drew that gross baby thing. It
was nasty. It was so much fun. We had intended it
to be one game for Liam's birthday, and then we
had a blast with it. A little time went by and
Liam was like, "So should we do that again?
"Because that was really fun." Matt was running
another game at the time, so we were just hoping
that he'd have time to run this other thing with
us, and it just kept going and going.
Yeah, friends! Woo!
(laughter)
LAURA: With the fake– yeah. How can you even– Are
you Pepsi?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, I'm Pepsi man.
(laughter)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I'm really impressed by all the
ranges you can do from Rise from Persona 4 who has
a cutesy teenage girl voice to screaming Trunks.
So I'm just wondering, how long did
it take you to practice that?
LAURA: I think it all came together over the years
of doing voices and stuff. I, oh gosh, I've been
voice acting now for 18 years. Jeez! Which now
makes sense why people come up and say, I watched
you in my childhood, because it's been that long.
(laughter)
LAURA: Dang, that's crazy! No, the first audition
I ever did was for Trunks, so I had never thought
about what voice acting would be, or how I would
come up with voices or whatever, but I saw the
picture of Trunks and I was like, "What do all the
boys sound like in cartoons?" and so that is the
voice that ended up coming out of my face, which I
don't know why that's the one I decided on. So
that was the first thing I did, and I think having
that be my first voice, which was so far from my
normal range, it left that door open for exploring
all the other ranges. I think if my first voice
that I had done had been similar to my own, then I
may not have done all the voices that I do now.
And plus, I studied singing and everything. I
studied musical theater, and anytime you're
practicing increasing your range like that, you
can bring that into voice acting as well, because
it's always useful to be able to do Lust to Rise.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.
LAURA: I'm sure you would make an amazing Rise.
(laughter)
LAURA: Because, man, yeah! Yes.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi.
LAURA: Oh, hello!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Can I get a high five?
LAURA: Psh! Get up here! Okay, has anyone played
Lost Legacy? Uncharted: Lost Legacy? Then you know
how bad I am at high fives. Okay.
(laughter)
LAURA: Yes! Third high five! We have a history of
high fives. Yeah.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I do have a question. It's: I
have not watched Critical Role,
but I'm a huge fan of Titansgrave.
LAURA: Oh, yeah!
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah! So what's the comparison?
Because Titansgrave was such a small group and
such a short-term game and then Critical Role, my
understanding, is a long-ass campaign, with ten or
20 people playing. So what's–
(laughter)
LAURA: No, okay, so Critical Role is, what are we,
seven people? Something like that. A party of
seven people. A party of eight people? I don't
know.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Seven
LAURA: Seven. Seven people. There you go. So it's
not that big of a group difference, but I think
with Titansgrave, we could have kept going. We had
this short amount of time that we were filming,
but all of us wanted to keep playing, and we were
begging for a second season so that we could see
where those characters would go. Because I
freaking love Lemley. I am so bummed that I only
got to play her for that short amount of time,
because I just want to keep being her.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: I based my own D&D character on
Lemley.
LAURA: What'd you say?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: That I based my own D&D character
off of Lemley.
LAURA: Did you really? Do you have a Dodgy
Lobotomy?
AUDIENCE MEMBER: So my character is a hunter and
got mauled by a bear, so now she has a robotic arm--
LAURA: Sick! That's so awesome! Man, when we were
creating those characters, it was like, "Okay,
"these are your choices," and I was like, "I want
to be this, but I kind of want to be a robot, too.
"Can I combine them?" And so I made her have this
cyborg arm that a blade retracts from, and I named
the blade Dodgy Lobotomy. She's so cool! So with
Titansgrave, we filmed it over I think it was
three or four days of just 12-hour days of playing
non-stop, and then they took all of that footage
and edited it down to the series. So that's a big
difference, because any of our downtown where we
were like, "Where should we go?" or "Do you guys
want to go shopping?", all of that got cut out, so
it's nonstop fun RP and action and stuff like
that, whereas Critical Role, all of those really
boring moments of, "I don't know what to do,"
that's still there. So you guys have to sit
through that. I'm sorry. Anytime that's happening,
I'm like, "Oh my god, they must be switching the
"station right now, they must hate us." But it's
one of those evils of just playing these kind of
games, right? It's a necessary evil.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you very much.
LAURA: Thank you. But it's not boring! I did a
really bad job selling it to you. You should watch it.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: The only reason I don't watch it
is because I don't have time.
LAURA: Okay, it is a time-consuming thing. We were
hoping-- can I say this?
AUDIENCE: Yes.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Whatever you say stays in this
room.
LAURA: Well, okay. We're kind of hoping to be able
to come up with something. I know we have the
podcast now, so it's just audio, so if you have
long drives or something, you can listen to it on
a podcast form, which is fine, so you can get
caught up. But we're hoping that there's some way
we can do episode recaps, maybe episode arc
recaps, so that people that are so far behind can
get caught up with chunks instead of having to
watch 400 hours of show if they don't want to put
in that time. So. Maybe someday, fingers crossed.
Yeah. Oh, am I-- I've got two minutes left. Hmm.
Yeah, get up there.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: So for Dragonball Z, when you
voiced Gotenks, was that two different voice
actresses in the booth at the same time?
LAURA: Yeah, no, we weren't together.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Okay, well, yeah. I was wondering
if the process was any different than a normal voice role.
LAURA: Yeah, the process is actually-- so when we
fuze, we're the same person, and then we have to
have the same personality, but luckily for me,
Gotenks has more of a Trunks personality, so that
means that I got to record first. For the most
part. And then Kara would come in, and she would
match my reads, and she's have to listen to it
over and over again and then say it to the same
timing, which feels totally weird, because
sometimes I'd have to go in after I moved away,
and Kara would record before me, so then I'd have
to match her timing on everything. Which is not
that bad, because it's like what I said in Saints
Row, it's like that same sort of thing where you
have to match the timing and kind of add your own
delivery to it, even though they're the same
person, but the battle reactions are really
freaking hard when you're matching somebody else's
timing. All the little (battle reactions). Hmm.
Have to do exactly that. It's hard.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: So she basically had to copy you
for all of that?
LAURA: For the most part, ha ha ha.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.
LAURA: Thank you. Oh man. Does that mean one more
question and then I'm done? One more question. One
more. Make it good. You. It better be so good.
(laughs)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: So since you are such a big fan
of actually playing video games and RPGs and
things like that, are there any video game
franchises or even anime or cartoon franchises
that you haven't been cast in that you really
would love to work on, and if so, what character
would you like to play?
LAURA: Oh, jeez. Most of the franchises that I'm a
huge fan of, I've been in, even if it's been a
small part. But I would love to-- and I've said it
so many times, I'm sure Bioware's like, "Shut up,
"Laura, we heard you." But I love Bioware so much,
and I would love to be an actual companion
character in one of those games, because then I
could romance myself.
(laughter)
LAURA: I mean, I guess I kind of am-- oh, shit.
Yeah, Kira. That is Bioware. Dang. I did it.
I did it, guys, I made it!
(cheering)
LAURA: Thanks for joining me! I think we have an
autograph signing right after this, and then we're
heading to the airport, so.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: He's got the work visas!
LAURA: Woo!
[elevator music]